# Towns

## Town

### Founding town

Town or province is a physical spot on a map. First person who gets there can found a town (needs resources and work hours - building motte & bailey) and he will become Baron of that land. After that, players can join that town.

If previously existing town has been abandoned (all players left it), a new person can take over it and he gets to keep most of structures - but for a limited time only. When too much time passes, the town crumbles and spot needs to be cleaned up first (action which grants resources), before it can be used to re-found the town.

### Buildings

Town is where buildings can be built. This includes walls for defence; farms, fields and mines for resorces; shops for production, etc.

List of buildings: todo

motte & bailey can be upgraded to castle, which grants certain bonuses (defence, baron -> count upgrade, ...)

Actions related to government role are not tied to building, but to character - status of kingdom, etc. can be lost or downgraded with buildings intact.

Each town has limited number of building spots inside and outside of walls. Outside buildings: houses, farms, fields, mines, docks, stables; inside buildings: palaces, houses, shops

### Higher levels of towns (alliances)

All level of alliances are treated equally by the game system, albeit with different requirements. Higher levels are mostly abstract entities. They give a leader a special status and additional actions, but do not require/create any new buildings. 

#### Duchy

Town leader (baron) can proclaim itself a duchy (needs to match requirements). It can then invite all the neighbouring towns into its duchy. Should they accept, they will belong to duchy. A duke can also start a war on neighbouring town in order to bring them to duchy by force. Duchy can have at most 2 other towns be a part of it.

#### Kingdom

Same as with duchy, but different towns and duchies can belong to kingdom. Can invite towns over higher distance (not just adjacent)

#### Empire

Same as with kingdom, can comprise of different towns, duchies and kingdoms.

#### Losing status

If an entity doesn't fulfill requirements for its status, it loses that status (kingdom needs 2 duchies, so if it loses one, it is downgraded to duchy)

#### Rationale for this system

The idea of this system is to limit wars to more local ones. Outright conquest is very hard, as conquered town does not lose it's leader, it is just incorporated into kingdom/duchy/empire, so resistance will be quite a problem for occupier - sometimes more of a nuissance than benefit. This is to prevent whole communities being destroyed as they don't lose anything.

It also allows for battles at multiple levels from smaller (town-town, duchy-town) to "world" wars (empire-empire). Smaller towns have great incentive to enter some kind of alliance (kingdom, empire) so they can be better protected.

It will also prevent 'empty' regions, as town with population of 1 will be quickly overrun. (and those with 0, dissolved)

### Prestige

Score, that can be generated by kingdoms and empires, based on won wars, hosted feasts, etc. Maybe make it most advertised kingdoms as well, so that people will strive for high prestige.

### TODO: alternative gameplay: republic

Idea is to allow system like venice had in our engine. Will add more details later.